
Certainly! Here’s a list of common requirements and specifications you would include in your help desk ticket to request the setup of a new cluster in Databricks:

Subject: Request for New Databricks Cluster Setup
Ticket Summary: Request to set up a new Databricks cluster in an existing environment.

Details: Please use the information below to set up a new cluster in Databricks that suits the requirements of my team and our workloads.

Cluster Configuration Requirements
Cluster Name:

Name: [Specify a clear, meaningful name]
Example: "Data-Processing-Cluster-Q3"
Cluster Mode:

Standard, High Concurrency, or Single Node?
Example: "Standard"
Databricks Runtime Version:

Specify the version required (e.g., DBR 12.2 with ML support).
Example: "Databricks Runtime 12.2 (includes Apache Spark 3.3.1, Scala 2.12)"
Node Type:

Worker and Driver Node Type: Specify the cloud provider instance types.
Example: "r5.xlarge" for both worker and driver nodes.
Cluster Size:

Number of Workers:
Min Workers: [Number of nodes at start]
Max Workers: [Maximum scaling for autoscaling]
Example: "Min Workers: 2, Max Workers: 10"
Autoscaling:

Enable or disable autoscaling?
Example: "Enable autoscaling"
AWS/Azure/GCP Configuration (If Applicable):

For example, specify if you need to use a specific VPC or subnet.
Example: "Use VPC named 'DataVPC' and Subnet ID 'subnet-XXXXXX'"
Spark Configuration Settings (Optional):

Any specific Spark configuration settings, e.g., increasing memory, shuffle partitions, etc.
Example: "spark.sql.shuffle.partitions = 200"
Cluster Tags (Optional):

Provide tags for better categorization and identification.
Example: "Project: XYZ, Environment: Development"
Permission Settings:

Permissions for users or groups to access the cluster (e.g., specific data engineers or analysts).
Example: "Provide access to users in the 'Data-Engineering' group"
Auto-Termination:

Specify an idle time duration after which the cluster should automatically terminate.
Example: "Auto-terminate after 30 minutes of inactivity"
Libraries to Pre-Install:

List any required libraries to install when the cluster starts.
Example:
"pandas" (via PyPI)
"com.microsoft.azure:spark-mssql-connector" (via Maven)
Environment Variables (Optional):

Specify environment variables to set up if needed.
Example: {"ENVIRONMENT": "DEVELOPMENT", "DATA_PATH": "/mnt/data-lake/"}
Storage Configuration:

Any specific storage mounts or data lake connections needed.
Example: "Mount S3 bucket s3://project-xyz-data to /mnt/xyz-data"
Security Requirements:

Specify if there are any security constraints or compliance requirements.
Example: "Enable cluster security features (e.g., cluster isolation)"
Additional Notes
Purpose of the Cluster: This cluster will be used for ETL operations, data processing, and exploratory data analysis.
Expected Workloads: The workloads involve processing datasets up to 500GB.
Please let me know if any further details are required for setting up the cluster. Thank you!

This list covers the main aspects typically involved in cluster creation. Feel free to add or modify as needed based on the specific requirements of your workload or environment.






You said:
i would like to also set up a cluster for an exploration and data lab kind of approach 
ChatGPT said:
ChatGPT
Got it! For a cluster intended for exploration and data lab purposes, the setup can be more flexible to support quick iteration, collaboration, and exploratory analysis. Here’s a refined ticket for requesting a Databricks cluster setup for that type of environment:

Subject: Request for New Databricks Cluster Setup for Exploration and Data Lab
Ticket Summary: Request to set up a new Databricks cluster optimized for exploratory analysis and data lab activities.

Details: Please use the information below to set up a new Databricks cluster tailored for an exploration and data lab environment.

Cluster Configuration Requirements
Cluster Name:

Name: [Specify a meaningful name]
Example: "Exploration-DataLab-Cluster-Q4"
Cluster Mode:

High Concurrency or Standard.
High Concurrency is preferable if multiple users will be sharing the cluster simultaneously.
Example: "High Concurrency".
Databricks Runtime Version:

Specify the runtime version (usually the latest stable version for exploration purposes).
Example: "Databricks Runtime 12.2 (includes Apache Spark 3.3.1, Scala 2.12)".
Node Type:

Worker and Driver Node Type: Use instance types that offer good balance for memory and CPU, suitable for exploration.
Example: "m5.large" for both driver and worker nodes to support moderate workloads.
Cluster Size:

Number of Workers:
Min Workers: [2 or 3] (small to start with for cost efficiency).
Max Workers: [5 to 10] (sufficient for exploratory scaling).
Example: "Min Workers: 2, Max Workers: 5".
Autoscaling:

Enable autoscaling to provide flexibility as workloads may vary during exploration.
Example: "Enable autoscaling".
Cloud Configuration:

AWS/Azure/GCP Configuration (if applicable).
Example: "Use default VPC and subnet configuration unless specific configurations are needed."
Spark Configuration Settings (Optional):

Adjust settings for iterative operations, e.g., reducing shuffle partitions for smaller workloads.
Example: "spark.sql.shuffle.partitions = 100".
Cluster Tags (Optional):

Tags for easier identification and budget tracking.
Example: "Project: Exploration, Environment: Sandbox".
Permission Settings:

Cluster Access for a wider audience (data scientists, analysts, etc.).
Example: "Provide access to 'Exploratory-Data-Users' group".
Auto-Termination:

Auto-terminate after a short period of inactivity to optimize cost, given the exploratory nature.
Example: "Auto-terminate after 20 minutes of inactivity".
Libraries to Pre-Install:

Libraries useful for exploratory data analysis and data science.
Example:
"pandas", "matplotlib", "seaborn" (via PyPI for Python visualization and analysis).
"delta" (via Maven for Delta Lake support).
Environment Variables (Optional):

Environment settings that may be useful during exploration.
Example: {"ENV": "TEST-LAB", "DATA_PATH": "/mnt/test-datalab/"}.
Storage Configuration:

Mount shared storage for easy access to exploration datasets.
Example: "Mount S3 bucket s3://exploration-datasets to /mnt/exploration-data".
Security Requirements:

Enable cluster features suitable for sandbox environments with minimal security concerns.
Example: "Standard cluster security settings with user isolation where applicable".
Additional Notes
Purpose of the Cluster: This cluster will be used by data scientists and analysts for quick, ad-hoc exploration and prototyping.
Collaboration Support: This cluster should support multiple users simultaneously for collaborative exploration.
Expected Workloads: Workloads will primarily involve data wrangling, visual exploration, and prototyping with datasets ranging from 10GB to 50GB.
Please let me know if additional information is required. Thank you!

This configuration is designed to support a flexible and dynamic environment
